
Building and advanced document search system on a Postgres Database. Standard RAG is naive. GraphRAG captures relationships across documents to answer questions on cause and effect and strategic insights such as trends.
Enhancing on naive RAG cam from several tweaks:
(1) Initially classifying the incoming question to best match it to community report level such as; Level 1 Direct Match e.g. what was Apples Revenue in Q2 2025, level2 Multi hop reasoning e.g. what factors led to the revenue increase, level 3 Chain of Thought Reasoning e.g. what strategic decisions impacted the financial performance. (2) combining community reports/insight’s with standard chunks using a weights algorithm. (3)  Using a Semantic Reranker Language Model to rerank the results. (4) We used a Reciprocal Rerank Function where we could combine the result of the Semantic Reranker with other algorithms such as BM25.

Evaluating & Benchmarking Your Search System
This is the classic offline evaluation problem. You need a repeatable, quantitative framework. Here's how to approach it systematically:
1. Build a Ground Truth Dataset (The Foundation)
Everything depends on a quality question-answer-context golden dataset.
Domain experts write 50 questions with known correct answers and the specific chunk IDs that should be retrieved. 
Synthetic generation using an LLM to generate Q&A pairs directly from the documents using LlamaIndex (RagDatasetGenerator) and the Domain expert questions as few shot prompts:
# Generate questions at each complexity level
prompts = {
    "L1": "Generate a factual lookup question from this chunk...",
    "L2": "Generate a multi-hop reasoning question requiring 2-3 chunks...",
    "L3": "Generate a strategic/causal reasoning question requiring synthesis..."
}
Labelled relevance judgments — For each question, label a pool of chunks as {0=irrelevant, 1=relevant, 2=highly relevant} (TREC-style). This enables graded metrics.

For Retrieval Metrics; measure what you retrieved, independent of generation:
Used nDCG@KGraded relevance, position-weighted. nDCG@10 is the most expressive since it rewards highly relevant results ranked higher.

The Core Principle
Measure retrieval and generation separately. A bad retrieval that happens to produce a good answer is a false positive. Separate metrics expose where in your pipeline the value is being added — which is what justifies each of your 4 design decisions.